Alright, in this demo we're going to examine accounts,
local accounts, Microsoft accounts, and so forth.
I want to give you a very useful tip, by the way,
at least I hope it will be useful.
I'm going to right-click, Start, and go to Run.
I know technically I can just click the Start button or
press the Windows key on my keyboard,
but this is a good tip if you've been frustrated on how the classic
Control Panel is somewhat hidden in Windows 10.
From a command prompt or Run type control,
and look what it does, it opens up all Control Panel items lickety-split.
From classic Control Panel let's go to User Accounts,
and we can see who is logged onto the system right now,
that would be me, and notice that I'm a local account,
I'm of the Administrator account type.
Now this interface that you see here is intended for the consumer,
that should be pretty obvious to you.
Notice that we have most things protected by User Account control,
but this is not a particularly comfortable interface for
Active Directory administrators for sure.
To that point, let me right-click, go to Run again,
and type the computer management console,
compmgmt.
msc.
This gives you a nice control surface that includes
the Local Users and Groups node,
so that's a more direct way to get to local accounts defined on that machine.
All of this is review, I understand.
Now notice it says Make change to my account in PC settings,
so honestly there's not a whole lot we can do from the classic Control Panel.
So I clicked that link, and that's opening up the Windows 10 Settings app,
and this is under Accounts.
You'll notice that the navigation here in the Settings app,
if sometimes it might be hard for you to determine your context,
where are you in the hierarchy of settings.
Well, the top element is where you are, and then you have,
akin to tabs on an old-fashioned Windows window,
we have these entries here.
Now, if we go home we can see Accounts right here,
so that's how you can get to it from the home base of Windows Settings.
And we have Your info, Email & app accounts,
Sign-in options, Access work or school, and then family or other people,
which we're not dealing with,
we're dealing with business in this environment so we won't do that,
but on Your info let's see what we have.
The main thing here is if we want to connect using a Microsoft account we
can click Sign-in with a Microsoft account instead,
and this is going to take us to the live.
com database, where you can either create an account if you don't have one,
or put in your email,
phone number or skype ID that's associated with your account.
I'll put my email address, supply my password.
I use two-factor authentication.
Particularly, I use Authy,
that's what I recommend if you're going to use one of those apps.
I'll put in my verification code.
We have to supply our Windows password one final time to
complete that handshaking process.
It asks if we want to use Windows Hello,
which could be the integration of biometrics or a
personal identification number instead.
Now, depending upon how your environment is set up,
you might have your Microsoft account already set up for this.
I'm going to click Next and skip over this for now.
I'll choose Setup a PIN later,
and you'll notice now that under Your info it says Manage my Microsoft account,
and if you click that link it takes you to account.
microsoft.
com.
If you want to go back to using only a local account,
notice that you can click Sign in with a local account instead.
So this now means that we can log on to the computer
using not only my local account name, Tim,
but also any of my Microsoft account information.
And now you notice here that I show up on my info page with
an email address instead of local account.
If we come down to Sync your settings,
this allows you to customize the individual settings that are synced; Theme,
Internet Explorer, Passwords, Language prefs,
Ease of Access, and then somewhat cryptically,
Other Windows Settings.
You've got to love that.
If we go to Sign-in options,
this is where you can turn in biometrics with Windows Hello if you have,
say, a thumbprint reader.
You can change your password, add a PIN.
Picture password is kind of fun, where you can select a photo,
click on it in any three spots, and that becomes your authentication method.
And then there's some privacy options, and so forth.
So that's the main body of information now that we've
connected to our Microsoft account.
That should make things easier, for instance,
when we're using Microsoft account services,
like OneDrive would be a good example.
If I right-click OneDrive and go to Settings,
we see here that we're automagically logged in using our Microsoft account,
and we have transparent access now to those OneDrive files and folders.
You see in the background here I still have the
classic Control Panel User Accounts up,
and once again we see that I'm listed as a Microsoft
account as opposed to a local account.
Now, I've opened up an elevated PowerShell prompt.
I'm going to run the command, the cmdlet, I should say, Get-LocalUser.
I was using tab there.
I typed Get-Local.
Let me go back.
Tab allows you to search through the cmdlets, it's very convenient.
And here we have Tim.
If you want more info about Tim, there's lots of different things we could do.
What I'm going to do is just create a quick variable called
$tim is Get-LocalUser with the name 'tim',
and that way I can do this.
If you want to investigate all the possible properties from a PowerShell prompt,
you can create a variable of the object,
in this case the variable tim contains a reference to my user account,
and by using the PowerShell pipeline,
which takes the output of the first part of the
pipeline and passes it to the second,
Format-List star leaves nothing to the imagination.
So we can see that the principle source for this account is in fact a Microsoft account.